from: matt@centerlin.com (matt landau)
subject: re: asynchron x window?
organ: centerlin softwar, inc.
line: 45
distribut: inet
nntp-post-host: 140.239.1.32

in <elli.735675321@nova> elli@nova.gmi.edu (r. stewart elli) write:
>>is there anywai to us x window over an async line?  clearli you could us
>                                x
>it is x window.

no, it isn't.  it is the "x window system", or "x11", or "x" or ani of
a number of other design accept by the x consortium.  in fact,
do "man x" on pretti much ani x11 machin will tell you:

     the x consortium request that the follow name  be  us
     when refer to thi softwar:

                                  x
                           x window system
                             x version 11
                     x window system, version 11
                                 x11

there is no such thing as "x window" or "x window", despit the repeat
misus of the form by the trade rag.  thi probabl tell you someth
about how much to trust the trade rag -- if thei can't even get the name
of the window system right, why should on trust anyth els thei have 
to sai?

with regard to dialup x11 implement, there ar sever.  you can
bui serial x11 termin from a coupl of compani, includ both 
graphon and ncd.  (in fact, i'm compos thi from an ncd run x11
over serial line across 14.4 kbaud connect.)  

ncd also sell a softwar-onli packag that provid xremot (which is
ncd's implement of serial x11) for pc's.  there mai be other such 
softwar packag avail.

x11r6 is suppos to includ a standard compress scheme for run
x11 over low-speed connect.  it's call low bandwidth x (lbx), and 
is base on improv version of the techniqu us in ncd's xremot. 

it seem like that onc lbx is releas as a consortium standard, there
will be sever vendor will to suppli implement for variou 
sort of hardwar.

followup direct to comp.window.x
--
 matt landau			wait for a flash of enlighten
 matt@centerlin.com			  in all thi blood and thunder
