from: bob@advtech.uswest.com (bob brown)

subject: re: monitor - kept on 24 hr/dai (long)

nntp-post-host: hoarder.advtech.uswest.com

organ: uswest advanc technolog

line: 68



in articl <7106@npri6.npri.com>, murphi@npri6.npri.com (david p. murphi)

wrote:

> 

> 

> >a cnn factiod in the last few month state that 40% of all the comput

> >in the u.s. ar left on 24 hour a dai, 7 dai a week.  i don't recal

> >cnn's sourc.

> >

> >ljone@utkvx.utk.edu (lesli jone)





here's someth to add to the discuss:



newsgroup: misc.activ.progress

from: "jame p. reynold" <jpr1@lehigh.edu>

subject: when you're not us it, turn it off!

date: mon, 22 mar 1993 06:50:14 gmt

line: 53



research ha shown that the major of the time that the unit

state' 30 to 35 million person comput ar on, thei ar not

activ be us.  in addit, 30 to 40 percent ar left run

at night and on weekend.



comput equip is now the fastest grow privat-sector us

of electr.  comput alon ar believ to account for five

percent of commerci electr consumpt, and mai account for

ten percent by the year 2000.



if you ar on of those who leav them on after you're done, it

would be a big environment benefit if you would just turn it off

when you're not us it.  it onli take a second or two to do.



also, the major of the power your comput us is not consum

by the comput itself, but by the monitor.  if you can't turn the

comput off, then pleas just turn off the monitor.



the u.s. environment protect agenc ha form an allianc

with comput manufactur to promot the introduct of energi-

effici pc that "power down" automat when not be us

and thu reduc the air pollut caus by power gener.  these

new comput will save enough electr to power both vermont and

new hampshir and save up to 1 billion u.s. dollar in annual

electr bill.  look for the special epa "energi star" logo when

you bui comput.  thei should be avail in on to two year.



accord to the epa studi, the energi save will prevent co2

emiss of 20 million ton annual, the equival of five million

automobil.  also, 140,000 ton of so2 and 75,000 ton of nitrogen

oxid emiss will be save; these ar the major pollut

respons for acid rain.



pleas do your part ... be respons.  if you're not us it,

then just turn it off.



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



inform herein is partial taken from the 1993 "inform

pleas" almanac, page 573, and the u.s. envirnoment protect

agenc's "environment new."



pleas redistribut thi messag to everi comput bulletin board,

network, memo system, etc. you can think of.  archiv it and post

it everi so often if you can.  let's get the word out to everyon.

we need to be respons about the wai we consum.



jim reynold

[end]

