from: ed hew <edhew@xenitec.on.ca>

subject: biz.sco.* newsgroup/mlist faq (period post)

organ: xenitec consult servic, kitchen, on, canada

summari: how to subscrib (and why)

keyword: biz, sco, newsgroup, mail list

line: 123





              evolut of sco newsgroup and mail list

              ---------------------------------------------

   

   mani reader enjoi the opportun to obtain and contribut us

   inform on sco open desktop sinc 1990 through the ancestr usenet

   newsgroup sco.opendesktop or it's companion mail list.  similarli,

   there wa a demonstr need for an inform and discuss forum

   for sco product in gener.

   

   with the increas demand for access and for addit sco

   newsgroup, mani current contributor includ those who have been

   activ in circul sco relat newsgroup and mail list felt

   that the readership would be best serv by creat a biz.sco.*

   hierarchi to improv propag (and henc avail) worldwid.



   biz.sco.{opendesktop,gener,announc} were newgroup mai 1, 1991 in

   accord with accept procedur within "biz".  given the content,

   thi chang reloc the "opendesktop" newsgroup to a more proper place

   within the establish usenet new hierarchi and add the new "announc"

   and "gener" group.  on aug 1, 1991, the former "sco-list@uunet.uu.net"

   becam "scogen" in keep with establish biz.sco.* name convent.



   biz.sco.binari and biz.sco.sourc were newgroup on june 1, 1992

   to respect accommod sco xenix, unix and opendesktop specif

   binari and sourc code.  the binari and sourc new group ar

   moder, with moder and submiss inform and polici

   outlin in the period imform post in those newsgroup.

   respect usenet etiquit, these newsgroup ar _not_ gate to

   mail list, but ar archiv on sever nuucp and ftp host.



   biz.sco.magazin wa newgroup dec 14, 1992, to provid a discuss

   area for the reader, writer and publish of sco magazin.

   

   subject to the usenet new hierarchi carri by your upstream feed,

   you ar now abl to subscrib to the follow:

   

        newsgroup                    mail list subscript

        ---------                    -------------------------

        biz.sco.opendesktop          scoodt-request@xenitec.on.ca

        biz.sco.gener              scogen-request@xenitec.on.ca

        biz.sco.announc             scoann-request@xenitec.on.ca

	biz.sco.sourc			<none>

	biz.sco.binari		<none>

	biz.sco.magazin	     scomag-request@xenitec.on.ca



   you ar _strongli_ encourag to obtain these newsgroup via usenet

   new mechan vr mail.  anyon have difficulti arrang a new

   feed for these newsgroup is welcom to email the undersign and

   i'll do my best to help.  we also offer all requir softwar in

   sourc code form via anonym ftp and uucp, as do mani archiv site.

   if, after have explor all option, you ar still unabl to receiv

   biz.sco.* as new, you mai subscrib to the mail list.

   

   the 4 discuss newsgroup ar bi-direction gate to companion

   mail list, so anyon not have access to new but who doe have a

   uucp or internet mail feed can still particip fulli us email.

   mail list subscrib should send their request to the appropri

   "mail list subscript" address abov, includ in the messag bodi:



	add: subscrib_address		-eg-

	add: your_lognam@site.do.main  -or-

	add: up!stream!yoursit!your_lognam



   inclus of an altern work bang-path rel to a well know

   major function site might prove benefici.  delet ar handl

   the same wai, simpli substitut "delet:" for "add:", ensur that

   you us the exact same address you subscrib with.  mail list

   subscrib receiv "how to post to the mlist" articl submiss

   inform when their request is process.  if you don't receiv

   an acknowledg within a few dai, check your rout and try a test

   messag via xenitec.on.ca back to your host.  in such case, it's like

   that someon, somewher, is bounc mail repli to you (and would do

   the same with mail list traffic), and you'll want to resolv your

   connect problem befor try to subscrib again.  mail list

   subscript ar free, subject to whatev arrang you mai have

   with the site(s) feed you.

   

   should you receiv no respons or experi a sudden and prolong

   drop to zero volum on on of the mail list, thi indic that we

   ar no longer abl to find a work rout to your site.  we loos a

   hand of subscrib thi wai each month.  if thi happen to you,

   pleas email us your known work bang-path rel to a major site.



   what's in the newsgroup (and mail_list where applic):

   

   biz.sco.opendesktop: technic question and answer and inform

                        post relat to past, present, and futur

                        implement of the sco opendesktop oper

                        environ and it's variou bundl compon.

   

   biz.sco.gener:     question, answer and comment on sco product

                        in gener, and of cours result discuss.

   

   biz.sco.announc:    sco and sco develop product announc of

			interest to current and futur user of sco product,

			and to sco develop, resel and distributor.

                        (moder, followup direct to biz.sco.gener).



   biz.sco.sourc:	sysv or bsd sourc code for us program and

			util, modifi to compil and run with variou

			incarn of sco xenix, unix, and/or opendesktop.



   biz.sco.binari:	binari packag compil from sco compat sourc

			code, often from sourc post in biz.sco.sourc

			and often instal us the sco "custom" util.



   biz.sco.magazin:	interact between the sco magazin reader, 

			writer and publish.



   you should alwai endeavour to post your articl to the most applic

   newsgroup.  for exampl, post your odt question to the "gener"

   newsgroup will preclud your question and answer to it from be

   save in the public odt archiv.  appropri crosspost is allow.



   the undersign is sole respons for administr of the biz.sco

   namespac.  suggest for addit biz.sco.* newsgroup and/or

   mail list should be email to the address below.

--

  ed. a. hew,    <edhew@xenitec.on.ca>    ....!uunet.ca!xenitec!eah

  xenitec consult servic, kitchen on, canada +1 519 570 9848

  trio train centr ltd. mississauga on canada +1 800-387-8649

          [biz.sco.* newsgroup and mail list godfath]

