from: johnston@me.udel.edu (bill johnston)

subject: re: iici rom offer 32-bit clean rom for iix

nntp-post-host: me.udel.edu

organ: univers of delawar

line: 45



in articl <mdavi.735319596@crash.ct.com> mdavi@crash.ct.com (morgan davi) write:



>last week's macweek articl by ric ford indic that david ramsei's

>mac iix ha been run nice with a mac iici rom in it, offer

>clean 32-bit rom code (liber hi iix from the virtual memori

>nightmar caus by appl's 32-bit system enabl).



[ thi would make me a bit suspect of mr. ramsei's qualif

as a self-style "expert", in fact, when i read about anybodi

us virtual memori regularli i kind of wonder ... ;-) ]



ye, on can sometim get awai with run a newer rom (of the 

correct size, obvious) in an older machin, but on should be 

prepar for problem if run softwar that check for machin 

type rather than rom trap avail and then draw incorrect 

conclus when special-case - especi time-depend

and driver-relat stuff.



in thi particular case i see no reason to go to the troubl 

of rom-swap.  the appl 32-bit enabl ha problem, but

mode32 work just fine with 7.0, 7.0.1, and 7.1.



>doe anyon know of a sourc for these rom?  



sure.  bui a us iici motherboard.  call pre-own electron,

shreve, or other part dealer (see the back of comput shopper

or on of the mac trade for phone number) and ask for a price

on a iici rom.  everyth ha a price.  if you happen to find

somebodi who salvag a iici with a dead motherboard, you might

get a decent price.  there is probabl a market for us mother-

board as well, so thei might sell a rom anywai.



>needless to sai, i'm interest in purchas such a rom.  what would

>be a reason price to offer?



ask for a quot and then try offer less?  pre-own and

shreve have been known to dicker.  their ad in variou trade

magazin often list consider differ price for the 

same item, and their phone quot tend to vari as well.



still, i'm not awar of ani technic reason for upgrad 

the rom in a iix.  

-- 

-- bill johnston (johnston@me.udel.edu)

-- 38 chamber street; newark, de 19711; (302)368-1949

