from: ntaib@silver.uc.indiana.edu (iskandar taib)

subject: re: pleas help an amiga user find comfort in window

nntp-post-host: silver.uc.indiana.edu

organ: indiana univers

line: 58



in articl <1t9ada$og0@fitz.tc.cornel.edu> stlombo@eo.acm.rpi.edu (steve j. lombardi) write:

>by night i'm an amiga user. by dai i work with window. i'd be much more 

>comfort in window if i had two thing.

>

>1. a good person inform manag. you know- a calendar, address book,

>remind list etc... roll into on clean interfac.



i prefer infoselect myself, but it is a strang kind of pim. 



>2. a good file manag. microsoft is veri poor by my standard. how

>about on that ha a left and right window and allow file oper 

>between them. be abl to launch program from the same interfac

>would be nice. as well as text read and graphic view. those

>who ar familiar with directori opu on the amiga know what i'm

>look for.





well, a few thing might help you like the 3.1 file manag better.



1) to get more than on window simpli doubl click on a drive icon.

   that it onli give you on window to work with is a fallaci. you

   can drag file between window, to ani icon on the tree on the left

   side of the window, and to ani drive icon. thi beat your "left

   and right window" as you can have as mani open as you wish instead 

   of just two.



2) you can launch ani app from within file manag by doubl click

   on the execut's icon.



3) you can launch ani applic and open a document file by doubl

   click on the document file's icon, provid you have

   associ set correctli. thi is easili done with the menu. the

   "brows" capabl add a lot of function to 3.1. so if you

   name all your text file with .txt and point all gif, tiff, etc.

   file toward paintshop or wingif, thi take care of your

   requir for "text read and graphic view".



i know someon who prefer us file manag as hi shell. set up

all the associ you need is the wai to do it.



if directori opu is half as good as file manag then it must be

pretti good inde! file manag just need you to understand how

some thing ar done.





















-- 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

iskandar taib                          | the onli thing wors than peach ala

internet: ntaib@silver.uc.indiana.edu |    frog is frog ala peach

bitnet:   ntaib@iubac                 !

