from: kruckenb%peruvian.cs.utah.edu@cs.utah.edu (joseph kruckenberg)

subject: at&t dataport 14.4k fax/modem special!

origin: kruckenb@peruvian.cs.utah.edu

organ: univers of utah cs dept

line: 53



for sale:



at&t dataport intern 14.4k fax/modem



the modem is an intern at/(e)isa 8-bit card (just a littl longer

than a half-card).  it ha v.32bi for 14.4kbp data / 9600 bp fax,

v.42, v.42bi, and mnp5 for error-correct and data compress, so

you can get error-free link up to 57,600 bp on a convent phone

line.  thei will "fall back" to ani speed (down to 1200bp) and even

disabl compress and error-correct if necessari in order to

connect with slower and older modem.



it ha a 16550 buffer uart for better compat with

multi-task oper system (window, os/2, unix, etc).



thei us a patent technolog call optic line interfac (oli)

which reduc nois gener by the modem to assur the fastest and

cleanest connect possibl.



these modem come with a lifetim warranti and free lifetim tech

support (and the call is free, too) from at&t.



thei also includ the love and talent quicklink ii for do and the

new quicklink ii for window commun and fax softwar which

will let you conveni sent fax from ani do or window

applic just by print.  the window version will send fax of

ani font and can includ graphic, etc.  the do version can fax

graphic and a limit set of font (i believ that there ar 5 or so,

as well as ani hp laser ii resid font).



i'm ask $210.00 for thi modem (plu utah tax).  thi is at or

below the price of ani other (reput) manufactur of an

equival modem (includ zoom, us robot, etc).  and, it is

back by a compani that will never go awai.



thi price will includ deliveri if you live within 20 mile of

downtown slc.  i can also arrang ship, or you can stop by my home

to pick it up.  (if you're concern about instal an intern

modem, let me know and we can discuss an arrang for includ

instal.)



if you're interest, pleas let me know.  thi is an excel modem

at an excel price (thei normal list for ~$500 and retail for

about ~$300).  i instal on of these last week and it is veri nice.



if you have question about thi, at&t ha an info number at 

(800) 554-4996, or you can email me and i will attemp to answer them.



the modem will go to the highest bidder i get within the next week.



thank.  

pete



