organ: univers of illinoi at chicago, academ comput center

from: pankaj saxena <u09416@uicvm.uic.edu>

subject: tcp/ip through window 3.1

line: 52



i don't know much about comput, so pleas bear with me. here's my question:



context: i us a packag call slip on my home comput to connect to the

         univers mainfram (an ibm 3090 run vm/mv), and log on to my

         account. when i instal slip on my comput, i had to configur it

         for my modem (14.4 kb etron intern) and had to suppli the phone

         number to dial to reach the mainfram. the wai it work now is that

         i type "telnet uicvm" or "tn3270 uicvm" (either will work) at the do

         prompt. uicvm is the node name of the mainfram. the program then

         dial the mainfram, establish a protocol, and give me the logon

         screen. "telnet" and "tn3270" ar the name of batch file in my slip

         directori. i have been told that a kermit protocol is us for the

         session.



problem: i would like to be abl to do all thi under window 3.1 becaus i

         hardli ever us do directli. slip will not run under window. i

         talk to the peopl at our comput center, and thei suggest that

         i us a packet driver call winpkt.com with slip. thei gave me

         instruct on how to load it befor i start window, and how to

         modifi the tcpstart and tcpstop batch file (in the slip directori)

         to ensur that it would work. i did all that and i could run slip

         from window, but there were other problem. for on thing, slip

         would not hang up the phone when i exit. i had to run my communi-

         cation program to hang up the phone or reboot the comput when

         that didn't work. for anoth, there were too mani error. it often

         took me 3-4 tri to connect to the mainfram. our comput center

         doe not support slip under window, so i can't keep go back to

         them with more question.



question: is there some other sharewar packag that will run under window

         and do what slip is suppos to do? i need a packag that is not too

         expens, which is why i am look for sharewar. i have heard that

         there ar regular commerci packag that do all thi, but thei cost

         hundr of dollar. these ar the main requir:



         1. must be abl to run under window 3.1

         2. must allow vt100 and ibm tn3270 termin emul

         3. must allow ftp file transfer, sinc that's the onli kind the

            mainfram allow. no y-modem or z-modem etc. i believ the ftp

            transfer ar made through a kermit protocol, but i'm hazi about

            that.



         a subsidiari featur (that would be nice to have) if it's a true

         window program (rather than a do program modifi to run under

         window) is the abil to run the session in a window concurr

         with other applic and to cut and past between the telnet

         session and other applic.



ani inform receiv is appreci.



pankaj saxena

u09416@uicvm.uic.edu

