from: manast@yu1.yu.edu (chaim manast)

subject: cfv: comp.publish.cdrom.{hardwar,multimedia,softwar}

organ: yeshiva univers

line: 225

nntp-post-host: rodan.uu.net



c a l l   f o r   v o t e

-------------------------

 

thi is the offici call for a vote on the creation of 3 newsgroup

for those engag or interest in all area relat to the

publish of ani sort of cdrom materi. pleas repost thi cfv to ani

newsgroup, listserv or reflector that you think might have a

group interest in thi subject in order to reach as broad an

audienc as possibl. everi vote count, so make sure you regist

your if you want these group to be creat.



 

propos group

---------------

comp.publish.cdrom.hardwar

comp.publish.cdrom.softwar

comp.publish.cdrom.multimedia

 

statu

------

unmoder.

 



vote period

-------------

from: the appear of thi post

to:   23:59 est, 21 mai 1993



how to vote

-----------

all vote must be email to: manast@yu1.yu.edu

or sent as a repli to the origin of thi cfv (manast@yu1.yu.edu). 



-to vote, simpli copi the exampl below and delet either the "ye"

or the "no" befor each group to regist your vote for or against

the creation of that group. a line contain "ye/no" as in the

exampl below, will be consid an abstent with respect to

that particular group. note that each group will have it own

separ vote count and that you mai split your vote for the group

or abstain as you will. pleas provid your name and e-mail address

as shown in the exampl below.



		email your  vote follow thi

		exampl.....

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

subject: re: vote on comp.publish.cdrom.*

	

i  vote "ye/no" for the creation of "comp.publish.cdrom.softwar"

i  vote "ye/no" for the creation of "comp.publish.cdrom.hardwar"

i  vote "ye/no" for the creation of "comp.publish.cdrom.multimedia"



	[last name], [first name] [(e-mail address)]

	.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------



vote rule

------------

-onli on vote per user (two differ peopl cannot vote under the

 same user name).

-ani vote which ar receiv befor or after the vote period

 will be discard.

-anyon who want to chang their previou vote mai do so by vote

 again.  thei must indic that thei have previous vote and ar

 chang their mind in a footnot.  a chang vote will discard your

 previou vote.

-email messag sent to the abov address must constitut unambigu

 and uncondit vote for/against newsgroup creation as propos.

 condit vote will not be accept.

-onli vote email to the abov address will be count; mail

 repli to thi post will be discard.

-in the event that more than on vote is place by an individu, onli

 the first vote will be count unless it wa chang as abov.

-no inform will be suppli as to how peopl ar vote until the

 final acknowledg is made at the end, at which time the full vote

 will be made public.



ambigu vote

---------------

ambigu vote -- those who do not follow the specifi format, or 

do not make clear the voter's intent, will, where possibl,  be 

return to their sender for clarif.  ambigu vote which 

cannot be return to their sender or for which no clarif is 

provid will be identifi in the final vote talli.



everi vote count........feel free to flood my mail!!!





rational

---------

the rational for thi propos is a need for those interest or

involv in the publish of cdrom materi to have a forum for

the discuss relat to their need. at the moment the main fora

for such discuss ar in alt.cd-rom and comp.multimedia neither

of which have publish as their focu. some list serv the

gener cdrom commun with focus on librari, govern and

network usag, and until sever week ago none were devot 

to publish (cdpub ha just been setup). in ani case a list is not,

and ought not, be a replac for regular usenet newsgroup.

 

the reason for the divis into three group is a natur

partit of interest between the hardwar and softwar topic,

and between the two main focal point of softwar, i.e. fulltext

and multimedia publish. topic such as cdrom xa, cdi, cd-r, 

photo cd and other relat format would be includ as well. 

topic relat to cdrom publish that ar neither clearli

hardwar or softwar relat such as book, copyright issu and

other legal matter, packag, distribut, could be includ in

the purvu of comp.publish.cdrom.softwar, as would ani other

nonhardwar or multimedia topic that relat in some wai to cdrom

publish, in ani format, and is appropri to the internet.

 

the main focu of comp.publish.cdrom.softwar would be topic such as

index and retriev softwar, premast softwar, cdrom

simul softwar, hypertext, sgml, scan and imag

softwar, data captur softwar, data clean up, compress,

encrypt etc as relat to publish cdrom.

 

the main focu of comp.publish.cdrom.multimedia would be softwar that

aid in the multimedia author and publish process - audio and

video.

 

the main focu of comp.publish.cdrom.hardwar would be hardwar that

relat to cdrom publish, as well as hardwar for data captur,

such as all sort of scanner and data captur hardwar, as well as

inform that publish need to know about the hardwar that

the intend endus will util (the hardwar that will

eventu plai the publish cdrom) includ network for cdrom.

 

note

-----

these group ar not to be us for topic such as review or

question relat to alreadi publish cdrom or review or

question relat to gener purpos cdrom drive and the like.

request for help in instal a cdrom drive and other gener

topic should be direct to other fora. question about cdrom

mount on lan should be direct to bit.listserv.cdromlan.

 

charter

-------

 

propos charter -- comp.publish.cdrom.softwar

 

the usenet newsgroup, comp.publish.cdrom.softwar, will be a newsgroup for 

discuss of the follow exampl topic, but not limit to them:

 

	index and retriev softwar

 

	author softwar

 

	scan and imag softwar

 

	ocr and ocr cleanup

 

	hypertext

 

	sgml

 

	premast and simul (cdrom) softwar

 

	copyright and legal issu relat to publish cdrom

 

	other nonhardwar topic relat to cdrom publish

 

propos charter -- comp.publish.cdrom.hardwar

 

the usenet newsgroup, comp.publish.cdrom.hardwar, will be a newsgroup for 

discuss of the follow exampl topic, but not limit to them:

 

	cd-r equip

 

	data captur hardwar

 

	scanner

 

	video and audio captur hardwar

 

	network hardwar

 

	midi hardwar

 

	photo cd hardwar

 

	publish system

 

	cdi and dvi hardwar

 

	compress and encrypt hardwar

 

	keyboard

 

	other hardwar publish topic

 

propos charter -- comp.publish.cdrom.multimedia

 

the usenet newsgroup, comp.publish.cdrom.multimedia will be a newsgroup for 

discuss of the follow exampl topic, but not limit to them:

 

	multimedia author softwar

 

	imag softwar

 

	audio and midi softwar

 

	color control softwar

 

	video edit softwar

 

	audio edit softwar

 

	multimedia util us for publish

 

	integr of text, imag, audio and video

 

	compress and encrypt of multimedia

 

	multimedia copyright and relat legal issu

 

	multimedia databas and hypertext

 

	other multimedia publish topic

-- 

	henri manast          *     email: manast@yu1.yu.edu

	brooklyn, ny            *

	disclaim: the abov is not necessarili my opinion nor that 

				of anyon els :-)  ????!

