from: peter hansen <pgmoffc@bnr.ca>
subject: re: help: 2 intern hd in mac ii?
x-xxdate: tue, 6 apr 93 11:17:54 gmt
nntp-post-host: bcarm382
organ: bnr
x-userag: nuntiu v1.1.1d17
line: 54

in articl <1993apr1.054820.3942@siemen.co.at> kurt netzer,
kurt@siemen.co.at write:
>is it possibl to instal a 2nd 3 1/2" 100 mb hd in a mac ii with a
>5 1/4" 40 mb qunatum hd?
>can i us a 50 pin cabl with 3 connector for the intern motherboard
>scsi-connector and the 2 scsi-hd connector. the first hd is'nt
termin
>the second will be.
>what about the power suppli. where can i connect a 3 1/2" amp-connector
>to suppli my 3 1/2" hd?

it is veri possibl to connect anoth intern hard disk in ani
macintosh if you can find the space to put it. i have a iisi that came
with a quantum 80 meg drive. when i ran into space problem, i slap in
anoth 40 meg quantum that i had sit on a shelf. here is what i did.
 
first off, i wa concern about space. sinc both drive ar quantum
quarter height drive, i final decid that the logic place for them
wa stack on upon the other. fine, thei fit snugli. (i have not had a
problem with heat yet, and these drive have been run togeth for
over two month.

the next problem wa connect the drive. if you have a spare intern
hard disk power cabl as i did, then half of your troubl ar over. just
splice in the extra cabl so that you get on squar motherboard
connector and two hard disk power connector. if you don't have a spare
cabl, you will have to bui the wire and connector which can be found
in ani good electron store for about $10. i would suggest properli
solder/heatshrink the connect to reduc the possibl of
short or bad connect.

next, you need a ribbon cabl connect. again, i had a spare hard disk
ribbon cabl, and i want to be care in case thi didn't word so what
i did wa purchas a crimp on 50 pin cabl connector that gave me anoth
male connector in the middl of my spare cabl. the part cost $10 again,
and is easili attach with ani good wood vice. the theori behind us a
crimp on connector is that if thi doesn't work, my origin cabl is not
damag, and i can go back to the origin setup.

have done all that, i couldn't be bother to check the dev note for
power consumpt so i plug it in and it work like a charm to thi
dai. 

in a mac ii, everyth should work the same. be care with the id's of
the drive, and ensur that the termin resistor on both drive ar
intact. i did not try thi without the termin resistor but it
seem logic that if i am split the scsi chain, that the signal
should be termin at all the end.

let me know if you have ani more question.

peter hansen
bell northern research
pgmoffc@bnr.ca
