from: fredm@media.mit.edu (fred g martin)
subject: re: put ex. syquest in centri 610?
organ: mit media laboratori
line: 54

i've just instal a 5.25" tape backup in my c610; lot of the issu
ar the same.  so, to answer your question...

in articl <1993apr16.141820.1@cstp.umkc.edu> kmoffatt@cstp.umkc.edu write:

> my pli 80m syquest drive ha a wire from the
> drive to an id# switch on the outsid of the case.  where do i connect
> thi switch??  can the comput just "tell" with intern drive?

you probabl want to hard-wire the scsi id with short jumper.  put
it at a conveni number like "1".  you *could* cut a hole in the
back of the machin to rout the id switch, but why go through the
hassl?  you probabl won't be need to frequent chang the id of
your intern drive.

>	i notic that the drive will lai over part of the motherboard (i
>didn't look close, but i seem to recal it lai over the ram that's
>solder onto the motherboard?  would that caus problem?

yeah, when i first instal the tape drive i wa a littl concern
too.  but it's no problem, the devic is design to fit just fine
with the overhang.  it shouldn't reach back beyond the rom/ram/vram
simm, though.

>	on last question!  is there anywher to order a facepl cover?  
>the drive's front panel is smaller than the space left in the case (the
>drive's panel is the same size as the spotsbm clone's case).  should i just
>cut a hole in the plastic panel that is current hold tmpty place?

you can special-order part to mount the devic from your local appl
dealer.  the relev part ar:

  922-0358  blank bezel facepl
  922-0850  cd-rom carrier [i.e., gener 5.25" devic mount bracket]

note appl's unfortun choic of name for the slide-in bracket to
mount a 5.25" devic.  the servic tech i talk to said, "oh sure,
we stock those."  of cours thei were think of the cd caddi to
hold a cd disk when you stick it in the drive.

as far as i can tell, appl doe not sell a bezel facepl alreadi
cut out for a standard 5.25" devic.  (why not?  thei advertis
these machin as be abl to accept ani standard devic in the
5.25" bai, why not provid the facepl?)   thei do sell a cutout for
their cd-rom drive (of cours), but that's of no us.

i'm go to hack up the extra bezel i order to make a cutout for my
tape drive, which is a standard 5.25" devic.

good luck with your syquest.

	-fred


