from: petrack@vnet.ibm.com
subject: serial line connect between duo 210 and pc???
repli-to: petrack@vnet.ibm.com
disclaim: thi post mai contain no view at all
new-softwar: usenet 3.1
line: 45

i have tri almost everyth under the sun to get a null modem connect
between a mac duo 210 and a pc. i have us mackermit and versaterm on
the mac side. i have us procomm, kermit, and softerm (on os/2) on
the pc (or ps) side. i have us non-hardwar handshak and hardwar
ahdshak cabl. and know my hand ar shake from the effort. noth
ha allow file transfer from the mac to the ps.

in gener, i can type back and forth with no troubl, but onli if both side
ar set to speed over 9600 baud. i cannot send file from the mac to the
ps at all, and file transfer from the duo to the ps ar not possibl.
when i do a straight ascii send, i can send from the ps to the duo flawlessli.
i can send binhex file thi wai quit fast, and i know that the
transmiss is error free.
but straight ascii sent from the mac to the ps is full of error.
unless, of cours, i do text pace so slow that it is like human
type. (well, like 2-3 time faster than human type).

i would like to hear from anyon who ha been abl to transfer file
from a duo 210 to a ps via modem or null modem. if you can do it, pleas
tell me your exact combin of hardwar and softwar. obvious, i am
talk of a true serial port modem, not the express modem. mayb some
kind soul with access to a modem and a duo 210 can check thi out for me.

right now, i am of the opinion that it won't work at high speed becaus
of the power interrupt on the duo, and it won't work at low speed
becaus of some crazi reason i don't understand.

could i hear from someon attest that thei can realli pump inform
out the serial port of a duo 210 fast? like via a modem or via a
sy-ex dump?

could anyon with a duo help me out?? i am go absolut insan.
i wanna know if the problem is my duo, or all duo 210s, or all duo,
or just me.

ye, i have check the cabl 1,000,000 time. and not onli can i type
back and forth, but zterm alert the user if s/he us hardwar handshak
and ct is down. so i know that hardwar handshak is work. and also,
accord to zterm port stat, the buffer never overflow.

pleas help me figur out what's go on...

scott petrack
petrack@haifasc3.vnet.ibm.com

