from: daa7365@tamut.tamu.edu (diego a. aranda)
subject: window sharewar monthli (inform)
articl-i.d.: tamsun.1ps35rinnfpd
organ: texa a&m univers, colleg station
line: 100
nntp-post-host: tamut.tamu.edu


window sharewar monthli (wsm) is an on-line forum for inform about the
newest and best window 3.x and nt sharewar/freewar softwar. 

wsm is a compil of submiss from sharewar/freewar author in a singl
window .hlp (help system) file.  all type of softwar mai be submit for
entri in wsm - util, applic, game, program tool, etc.

wsm benefit window sharewar/freewar author by allow them to public
their softwar releas, inform user of updat version, and to increas
their instal base of user.  those search for specif window softwar
will benefit by have a complet list of avail softwar avail at their
fingertip - complet with featur list, current price, and ani other
relev inform.

window softwar author mai submit entri to window sharewar monthli in the
follow manner:

1. compos a short summari of the function of the softwar.  includ all
   special featur which ar uniqu to your product and which set it apart
   from other program in the genr.  be sure to includ specif detail
   such as: the current releas version, where the softwar is avail,
   how much the registr fee cost, how much disk space is requir, ani
   special requir (e.g. sound card, or vbrun200.dll, etc.), how the
   author mai be contact, etc.  becaus text is highli compress, the
   summari mai be as long as is necessari, howev, it is best to keep it
   short.  a good guidelin is a singl screen of 12-point text at 640x480
   resolut.  order form and other such addendum mai be includ if desir.
   all submiss whould be in plain text (ascii) format.  format will
   be exactli as it is submit - i will simpli cut and past text file
   into a help author system.  if you requir special format 
   convent - such as boldfac text or ital, or a larger font size,
   indic so clearli within the text file.  for best result, us window
   notepad to creat the .txt file. 
 
2. includ up to 100k of window-format .bmp (bitmap) screen-shot which
   displai the work or special featur of each program.  special case
   (render applic for exampl) which requir 256-color bitmap mai
   submit up to 250k of .bmp file - all other should observ the 100k limit
   and us 16-color format.  for maximum compatibl with the softwar which
   will be us to creat the wsm .hlp file (stefan olson's help writer's
   assist for window), pleas save the bitmap with window paintbrush or
   wingif. 

3. includ a 16-color .bmp of the program's icon (.ico file).  mani program
   ar avail to convert .ico to .bmp format, or window paintbrush mai be
   us.  the .bmp will be embed in the summari text.

4. doubl-check for spell error, format correct, etc.  

5. compress the .txt file, the .bmp of the program icon, and ani addit
   .bmp into a singl file us pkzip (ani version).

6. submit the entri by uuencod the .zipfil, and e-mail it to:
   
   daa7365@tamut.tamu.edu

   if submit via the internet or compuserv. if submit via america
   onlin, send a brief messag indic submiss, and append the .zip
   file, then e-mail to:

   diegoaa

7. if ani chang ar requir, or a new version is releas, complet
   the abov procedur again.  send all submiss to the @tamut address,
   and ani comment, suggest, critic, to daa7365@rigel.tamu.edu.

all entri receiv befor the deadlin will be includ in the subsequ
edit of wsm.  the editor will not be held respons for ani error, and
we reserv the right to make chang to the entri.

wsm is not limit to sharewar/freewar softwar.  a special area will be
devot to commerci avail window 3.x and nt softwar.  commerci
softwar author should follow the same step abov, with the except of
the limit on size - the .txt file and .bmp mai be as larg as requir
(and as larg as is practic for transmiss over phone line).  there
is no charg for the publish of either sharewar/freewar or commerci
product entri.  

advertis for comput hardwar, softwar, bulletin board, etc. mai
be submit as well. again, the same procedur appli, with the except of
the size limit.  there is no charg for advertis space.  the first
ten advertis submit each month will be includ; subsequ
submiss will not be includ due to size constraint.

wsm is current look for person will to devot the time to author
column within wsm.  a c/c++ program section, a visual basic section, and
two window-specif opinion/advic column ar envis.  all work will
be on a voluntari basi.  if you wish to aid wsm and author a monthli column
on on of the abov topic, pleas send us mail at daa7365@tamut.tamu.edu or
diegoaa on america onlin.
 
the first edit of wsm will be distribut mai 1st via america onlin,
compuserv, and the internet.  the deadlin for submiss is april 28th.
the first edit filenam will be wsm-1.zip, with each subsequ monthli
releas continu in the seri name convent (wsm-2.zip, etc.).  each
edit will be releas on the first of each month, and the deadlin for
submiss will be at least three dai befor releas. 

 
