from: bharper@cimlinc.uucp (brett harper)
subject: gui applic framework for window ??
organ: cimlinc, inc. - engin
line: 63

hello,
  
  i'm investig the purchas of an object orient applic framework.  i have
come across a few that look good:

  zapp 1.1 from inmark
  zinc 3.5 from zinc softwar
  c++/view from liant
  win++ from blais

some consider i'm us:

  be new to window program (i'm from the unix/x world), the qualiti and
intuitiv of the abstract that these class librari provid is veri 
import.  howev, sinc i'm not advers to learn the intern of window
program, the new program methodolog should be close align with
the nativ on.  i don't believ arbitrari level of abstract, just for the
sake of chang the api, ar valuabl.

  sinc we will be develop for the 32bit window nt system the
memori manag issu and issu particular to the window 3.1 api ar less
import. 

  we will probabl bui anoth c++ class librari (someth like tool.h++ or booch
compon from ration) to handl data structur and other miscellan stuff
 (alloc etc...).  so those featur ar not that import for thi toolkit to have.

the two that i have narrow it down to ar zapp and zinc, thei seem to be the two
toolkit that have receiv the most attent from the media.  i wa wonder if
anyon had ani first-hand experi with ani of these toolkit (especi zapp and zinc).

a coupl of observ about these toolkit that seem particularli noteworthi ar:

zapp
----
  seem to have the most extens coverag of window function and
    also includ some other miscellan us class.
  ha new fanci 3d-style control avail, and support for custom control.
  ha a window nt version (essenti)
  redirect graphic displai/output architectur (us for print)
  sizer class for automat manag control layout after resiz.
  seem to be the newcom, thi could be an advantag in design a better system.
 
zinc
----
  ha a platform independ resourc strategi.  (not too import for me right now)
  come with a interfac builder tool
  ha a window nt version (essenti)
  seem to have been around longer (more matur), but grew up out of a do version.  
  had a better demo :-)

both have sourc code avail option
both ar lack ol support
neither seem to have ani particular support for multimedia type stuff


ani thought anyon ha on thi would be much appreci,

thank,
  brett harper


brett.harper@cimlinc.com
