from: ebosco@us.oracl.com (eric bosco)
subject: window 3.1 keep crash: pleas help
nntp-post-host: monica.us.oracl.com
repli-to: ebosco@us.oracl.com
organ: oracl corp., redwood shore ca
x-disclaim: thi messag wa written by an unauthent user
              at oracl corpor.  the opinion express ar those
              of the user and not necessarili those of oracl.
line: 41


as the subject sai, window 3.1 keep crash (givinh me gpf) on me of  
late.  it wa never a veri stabl packag, but now it seem to crash everi  
dai.  the worst part about it is that it doe not crash consist: ie i  
can't reproduc crash, and thei ar not alwai gpf's in the same  
applic. sometim i can recov by simpli close the applic  
that caus an error, but other time, window act veri strang, and i  
need to re-boot.

some background:  i have a lead edg 486sx25 with phoenix bio.  when i  
first got it it had 4mg of memori.  it ran window fine (not too mani  
gpf's).  then, a coupl of weekend ago, i instal lotu 123 for window  
(with atm), a game card and an addit 4  1mg simm.  the lead edg  
machin is kind of strang, in that it ha the id control built into  
the motherboard, the cpu is actual on a sparat board that plug into  
the motherboard and the simm it us ar macintosh simm! appar i  
wa told that the lead edg had the pariti bit built into the mother  
board.  the origin 4mg 80ns simm where of the 2 chip varieti from  
samsung, and the on i instal ar 8 chip simm. thei ar recogn  
fine by the bio ram check. the game card is a gener $20 gamecard.

the reason why i mention the hardwar like thi is that sometim  
reboot the machin us the reset button or ctl-alt-del still leav  
the machin kind of flaki, but turn it on and off doesn't. 

i haven't tri take out the ram or the game card, becaus as i said  
these gpf ar not reproduc at will.  i have gone through and entir  
dai us the comput with no problem and then i might get 5 or so gpf's  
in the sppace of 20 minut?

what can i do.  thi situat is most annoi... ar there ani good  
diagnost tool for hardwar? do you think that thi might be a softwar  
problem (ie emm386 etc.)? if it help, i have manag to get gpf's on after  
dark, quicken, paint shop pro. a lot of them have been in user.ex or  
gdi.ex.

ani help is truli appreci.....

-eric

ebosco@us.oracl.com
