from: don@hunan.rastek.com (donald owen newbold)
subject: re: atm...  ==>  now hplj 4 price
organ: rastek corpor, huntsvil, al
line: 41

while there ar too mani ps clone to count, some of which ar quit poor,
try to clone someth that goe through regular modif doe requir
some patienc. three question come to mid real quick for someth like
thi.

q:	which version of adob ps will we clone?
	asid from the level 1 and level 2 issu, adob ha in the past releas
	new code that incorpor modif/upgrad/fix just as all other
	softwar vendor do. the level 2 stuff mai seem sound now, but i assur
	you,chang will becom more frequent as their custom list begin to
	dwindl in the face of competit. thi allow them to shift peopl to
	mainten, as well as design effort for level 3.

q:	do we duplic the bug, or do we make it work correctli?
	from the laserwrit to the laserjet 4 there have been bug. (if i had
	a number to call at hp or adob, thei'ld have heard from me.) decid
	which approach to take depend on which printer you want to emul.

q:	do we follow the red book, or do we follow someon's implement?
	without a doubt, there ar differ between the red book and adob's
	ps. with level 2 mani issu have been refin but the red book doe
	leav big, big hole in the implement specif stuff. it would be
	nice it the red bood at least pine thing down enough so that two
	differ implement of adob's ps don't do the exact opposit given
	an ident set of condit.

q:	pscript.drv?
	have done a lot of ps clone test myself, the unfortun side of
	test is the limit number of sourc for test file. the primari
	sourc we us is genoa. and have character their 1992 ps at file,
	(1300+ of them) over half ar taken from pscript.drv. it mai not ideal,
	but the at file ar what the printer vendor us. i'm sure that adob
	us them too, but adob's output is by definit correct, even if it
	wrong.

ye, there ar some veri poor clone. we've seen them here at rastek (a sub
of genicom which ha it own clone call geniscript). some ar poor for lack
of design, some ar poor becaus thei follow the red book, and some ar poor
becaus the vendor don't know what ps is.

don newbold									don@rastek.com
