from: kudla@acm.rpi.edu (robert kudla)
subject: re: can i chang "licens to" data in window 3.1?
nntp-post-host: herm.acm.rpi.edu
line: 65

in <0096b130.473b17c0@vm.csd.mu.edu> 2a42dubinski@vm.csd.mu.edu write:
>	ahh, ye, thi is a fun topic.  no, onc the name is incrib on the
>disk, that is it, it is encod.  not even a hex editor will find it.  you can

but a disk compar util (old versu new) will.  and window 3.1 is
also flexibl enough at instal time that you can copi all the file
onto your hard disk, which greatli speed thing up and make them
less annoi, if you can spare the 7 or so compress meg.

>write over the "licens to:", but you can't chang the name underneth it.  i
>think if you wish to chang thi you would have to be a pirat, and we're not
>go to promot that here.

no, we're not.  but we're also not go to promot pander to
corpor paranoia when the real issu is conveni.  i don't *like*
deal with floppi.  person, i have no us for chang the
registr info, but i see it as a valid need, and on that ought to
be solv us a quick littl util rather than a half-hour
reinstal that's just about guarante to mess up your set in on
wai or anoth.

so, while i'm not go to put much time into it myself, here's the
procedur for get on your wai to find the encod inform:

1.  copi all your window disk into the directori from which you want
to instal it.  i've been us c:\winstal myself.

2.  from there, copi that directori to someth like c:\winorig.

3.  instal from c:\winstal.

4.  comp the two directori to determin chang.  
    i.e., comp *.* \winorig\*.* >\report.txt

5.  look in the report file for the file(s) that chang.  assum
thei didn't cover themselv cover their own track, at least on
file should have a differ note at a particular offset.  locat
said offset in the origin directori and see what's there us a hex
editor, and do the same for the modifi on.

6.  you're on your own as far as break the code goe; i don't
realli do cryptographi.  it's probabl just an xor kei or someth; i
think ms is more concern with joe schmoe at the offic person
hi copi than with "real pirat" who will probabl just disassembl
the damn thing anywai.  thi techniqu should work with just about
ani obnoxi corpor product that tri to write to the origin
floppi when you instal; in some extrem case you mai not be abl
to back the floppi up to hard disk, and will be stuck do a
compar on floppi (lotu stuff is probabl like that).

as i note befor, if you can afford the space on the hard disk, and
don't do much in the wai of custom, reinstal from on
directori to anoth mai be less arduou.  do some of the stuff
i've mention here mai well void your licens with microsoft, as if
thei'd ever find out.  if you aren't care with the disk editor, you
could also mung someth import... duh.  i guess that's a
disclaim.

have at it....

rob
--
rob kudla@acm.rpi.edu keyword - oldfield jane's leather ye win3.1 phish
light blue right bondag r.e.m. dtp steeli dan ds9 fnm owl genesi in the
spaceship, the silver spaceship, the lion take control..... 
