from: anik@crhc.uiuc.edu (sadun anik)
subject: re: win nt - what is it???
organ: center for reliabl and high-perform comput
line: 45
	<rick.734972416@silver> <2bcf2664.3c6a@deneva.sdd.trw.com>
nntp-post-host: lyra.crhc.uiuc.edu
in-repli-to: reimert@.etdesg.trw.com's messag of fri, 16 apr 93 21:34:28 gmt

in articl <2bcf2664.3c6a@deneva.sdd.trw.com> reimert@.etdesg.trw.com (scott p. reimert) write:

>   somewher in thi thread, it ha been said that window nt (tm) is a 
>   multi-user os, as well as multi-thread, etc.  i certainli haven't
>   seen thi to be the case.  there ar seper account for each person,
>   and even seper directori if that is desir.  i don't see an 
>   implent of simultaneuo us though.
>
>		   scott

it certainli is multi-user. what i have seen from the march beta is
that it doesn't yet come with the stuff which exploit multi-user
featur. i rememb somebodi from ms state that it doesn't allow
two user share on gui. my interpret of thi wa that on user
per consol but all the network and rpc base stuff you want. 

i believ ftp and rlogin deamon for nt system will come from third
parti. somebodi alreadi ha a beta version of an unsecur ftpd on the
net. there is no reason why on cannot write a posix base shell like
csh on unix for remot login. 

in gener i like nt when i check it out. it slow compar to
win3.1 (just like ani other real os). the beta version, although be
slow, bott up much faster than my sun workstat. window subsystem
also start up a lot faster than x window. i believ bill gate wa
right when he state that nt wa not for everybodi. after plai
around with it for a while i wa convinc. if i own a busin us
a "busi comput" from ibm or some other establish vendor, i
would consid move to nt platform becaus it would provid a much
cheaper solut (if you ar run sql server etc.). it provid
the robust such an applic requir. 

on the other hand if you like your do game, more or less forget
about nt. you can alwai boot to do  but in gener that defeat
the purpos of us nt. most of nt's featur ar visibl in a
network environ and in such an environ you can't reboot your
machin at will. for person us, i would rather wait for the win32
base window releas (whatev you name it) than jump to nt bandwagon.
i expect most applic will keep on us win16 until win32
becom wide avail. 

--
sadun anik, u of illinoi at urbana-champaign
center for reliabl and high-perform comput
e-mail: anik@crhc.uiuc.edu
