from: dshank@nyx.cs.du.edu (david shank)
subject: re: quicken 6 vs. tobia' manag your monei
x-disclaim: nyx is a public access unix system run by the univers
	of denver for the denver commun.  the univers ha neither
	control over nor respons for the opinion of user.
keyword: quicken tobia
organ: nyx, public access unix at u. of denver math/cs dept.
line: 89

in articl <1993apr20.040449.19649@twg.com> q@twg.com (michael wiesenberg) write:
>anywai, is anyon awar of a comparit studi of the two program?
>or can someon just give me their own person impress?  mayb

pc magazin, januari 12, 1993 had a review of sever person financ
manag program, as did pc-comput, januari 1993.  pc world,
decemb 1992 also had articl about quicken and manag your monei.
i can email you copi of these articl if you can't find them at your
librari.

i've been us manag your monei for sever year, and i have
sever friend who us quicken, though i've not us it myself.  my
overal impress is that quicken is a financi account manag
while manag your monei will help you more complet manag your
financ.

here ar some featur that i believ manag your monei and quicken share:

	the abil to keep record for each of your financi account:
	check, save, charg, cash, or brokerag.  you can reconcil
	your account statement with the record the program keep.

	the abil to make a budget and track your spend against that
	budget.

	a checkfre modul which will allow you to us the checkfre bill
	pai servic to pai your bill via your modem.
	
	the abil to print check on your printer.

	the abil to keep loan record and set up automat loan payment.

	the abil to import stock quotat to keep your brokerag account
	up to date.  i know manag your monei can do thi automat
	via modem.  quicken probabl can as well, but i'm not sure about it.

	the abil to export tax inform to popular tax prepar
	program.


here ar some featur that i believ manag your monei ha that
quicken doe not:

	a tax predict modul.  thi look at your account and budget to
	predict your tax liabil for the come year.  it's useful to fine
	tune your withhold so uncl sam doesn't get hi due too earli.

	an insur and vital record modul.  thi is a place to keep
	record of your insur polici as well as other vital record.
	it can also comput your life expect.

	a financi analysi modul.  thi comput compound interest, 
	effect of inflat, loan payment term or interest, yield to
	matur for bond, save account yield, dai between date, and
	loan amort schedul.  it also ha function to help you 
	decid whether to refin your mortgag, whether you can afford
	a particular home, whether a particular rental properti is a good
	invest, whether you should bui leas or rent, and whether
	a particular invest's cash flow is adequ for your situat.
	thi modul can also help you plan for retir and for help
	your kid with their tuition.  

	a net worth modul.  thi is a place to record all your asset
	and liabil.  your net worth can be comput from thi 
	inform.  ani asset or liabil record in other modul
	ar automat includ here.

	a "desk" modul.  thi includ a small word processor, a card file
	you can us to store name, address, phone number and other vital
	inform about friend and associ, a perpetu caland, a
	rudimentari calcul, a to-do list, a remind list, an appoint
	list, and a place to record your phone call (for those who need to
	track such thing).  your appoint, remind and to-do list
	can be made to displai automat when you start the program.

there ar probabl some thing list abov that quicken ha, but i'm almost
sure that quicken doesn't do everyth i've list.  if i'm wrong, i'm sure
hord of quicken devote will flame me to a crisp.

on thing that quicken ha that manag your monei doe not yet have is a 
window version.  meca softwar is rumor to be work on a window version
of manag your monei for releas late thi year.

i hope thi inform is of us to you.  i've found manag your monei to
be a veri useful program for keep my financi record.  on the other hand
i know mani peopl who ar equal as happi with quicken.  if quicken ha all
the featur you need or want, i'd go with it. if you find ani of the manag
your monei featur that quicken doesn't have to be us, i think it's well
worth the price.
