from: tomh@metric.com (tom haapanen)
subject: rfd: comp.os.ms-window.nt.{misc,setup}
organ: softwar metric inc.
line: 76
nntp-post-host: rodan.uu.net

thi is the offici request for discuss (rfd) for the creation of two
new newsgroup for microsoft window nt.  thi is a second rfd, replac
the on origin post in januari '93 (and never taken to a vote).  the
propos group ar describ below:

name: 	 comp.os.ms-window.nt.setup
statu:  unmoder.
purpos: discuss about set up and instal window nt, and about
	 system and peripher compat issu for window nt.

name:	 comp.os.ms-window.nt.misc
statu:	 unmoder.
purpos: miscellan non-program discuss about us window nt,
	 includ issu such as secur, network featur, consol
	 mode and window 3.1 (win16) compat.

rational:
	microsoft nt is the newest member of the microsoft window famili
	of oper system (or oper environ for those who wish
	to argu about the mean of an "os").  the famili rang from
	modular window through window 3.1 and window for workgroup to
	window nt at the high end.  to date, microsoft ha ship over
	50,000 beta copi and pre-releas sdk of window nt -- the
	actual releas is slate for mai/june '93.

	while window nt ha an entir new design intern, it share
	an applic program interfac with the other member of the
	window famili; it win32 api includ the win16 api us in win-
	dow 3.1, and the win32s api subset (win32 less thread, network
	and secur) can be us to creat 32-bit applic for
	window 3.1.

	the user interfac is also practic ident to that of window
	3.1, with the addit of login and a few other featur.  it us
	program manag, file manag and other applet, and gener pre-
	sent an ident appear to the user.  mani of the announc
	window nt applic ar port of exist window 3.1 app, and
	nt also run exist 3.1 applic.

	thu, it appear logic that window nt should share the follow
	group with the other member of the window famili:
		comp.os.ms-window.app
		comp.os.ms-window.programm.tool
		comp.os.ms-window.programm.misc
		comp.os.ms-window.programm.win32
	
	the follow group ar also clearli applic to window nt as
	well as window 3.1:
		comp.os.ms-window.announc
		comp.os.ms-window.advocaci
	
	in conclus, the onli clear argument for the separ of the
	window 3.1 and window nt hierarchi is differ intern
	structur of window 3.1 and window nt.  and yet oper
	system such as os/2, macintosh os, xenix and coher all have
	undergon major rewrit without have been split into separ
	newsgroup hierarchi.

	further, window 3.1 is due for a major rewrit itself in 1994 --
	when the fulli 32-bit, protect-mode and with-do-built-in next-
	gener window, "chicago", debut next year, sure it should
	remain in the same hierarchi.  and what, then, would be the ju-
	tific for separ window nt from other window version?


discuss period:
	the discuss period will run from 27 april, 1992 to 18 mai, 1993.  

vote:
	the cfv (call for vote) will be issu around 19 mai, 1993, base on
	the feedback receiv dure the discuss period.  no vote will
	be accept prior to the cfv.
-- 
[ /tom haapanen -- tomh@metric.com -- softwar metric inc -- waterloo, ont ]
[       "stick your index finger into both corner of your mouth.  now pull ]
[          up.  that's how the corrado make you feel."  -- car, januari '93 ]
