from: while@nswc.navi.mil (william scott hile x1568)
subject: re: tape drive problem
repli-to: while@nswc.navi.mil
organ: naval surfac warfar center, dahlgren divis
line: 62

in articl 489@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu, husak@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu (stephen r. husak ) write:
>pleas repli via e-mail sinc thi is job relat: 
>
>i have a colorado jumbo back-up system at on of my place of 
>employ and it ha eaten two tape by wind the tape off the spool.
>
>is there an easi fix or is the tape drive fri? doe it simpli need 
>clean?
>
>ani and all comment will be appreci!
>
>stephen husak
>
>-- 
>"what am i try to do, what am i try to sai, i'm not try to tell you 
> anyth you didn't know when you woke up todai..."
>				- depech mode "noth" music for the mass
>-= stephen r. husak - husak@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu - univeris of illinoi

doe it do it to all tape?  were the two tape that it unwound of the same
type from the same batch?  the reason i ask is that i bought some gener tape
that did thi and found that the tape marker were not fulli punch out and
had close the littl marker hole.  it wa onli on a few tape of a set.

did you open up the tape cartridg and put the tape back on the reel?

if you have not yet, open it up by remov the two screw on the bottom of
the tape cartridg and snap the plastic shell awai from the metal base.  
as you ar pull the tape through the assembl try not to touch ani more 
than you have to.  as you ar do it, look for a coupl of littl hole in 
the tape.  these ar the marker hole which let the tape drive know when it is 
at the end of the tape.  the hole ar space a coupl of inch apart.  my best
guess is that the drive find the first marker and then stop on the second
marker?  

anyhow, if the tape ha the hole, then check to see if the mirror on the tape
is clean.  the function of the mirror is to detect the marker hole.  the
tape drive shine a light at the mirror and ha a pickup in the area where
the reflect would come out.  when the hole goe by, the pickup detect the 
light that wa allow to pass and it know when to stop.  if the mirror is dirti
or out of aligh (unlik sinc it is made into the case) you might have
a problem detect the end of the tape.

if the tape drive doe it on all tape and the tape all look good, then either
the pickup or the led of the sensor system ha fail or is dirti.  if you open
the drive door you will see the sensor assembl to the left of the r/w head
assembl.  if it look clean and noth is in it wai, then the drive mai
need to be servic.  it is possibl that the led is burn out or the sensor
is out. 

if it is still in warranti, you might be abl to send it back to cm for
repair.


---
scott hile
while@relai.nswc.navi.mil

standard disclaim:
  the opinion express ar those of my own and do not necessarili 
  reflect those of the dod or the navi.  i accept full respons.

