subject: netwar server 286a and sft netwar 286 level ii v2.0a serialis
from: system@codewk.nacjack.gen.nz (wayn mcdougal)
organ: the code work limit, po box 10 155, auckland, new zealand
line: 60

fact:
=====
- a netwar server 286a wa roughli move to a new locat and left power
down for three month.
- from memori it ha an 80 mb hard drive.
- manual and origin disk ar for sft netwar 286 level ii v2.0a
- when power up, the cmo wa wipe. a technician examin it and 
pronounc the disk drive unus.

my investig indic that drive c is a type 27 (1024 cylind, 9 side).
when cmo set thi wai, compsurf run happili, with 13 bad block.

i us prepar to hotfix the on intern drive.

instal will proce "successfulli", but when i try to boot the server, it
report that the softwar is not serialis for thi hardwar.

intern examin indic that the keycard is present, and there is on
disk drive (or at least on larg singl unit). 

attempt to configur a second drive in cmo result in drive not readi
error.

question:
=========
the softwar is netwar 286 level ii and i can see burnt on to the screen
sft netwar 286 level ii v2.0a. howev, to configur netwar for level ii
(mirror or duplex disk) requir a second disk, ye? 

so how is the novel server 286a normal configur?

1. can i instal sft netwar 286 level ii v2.0a as level i, or is thi what
is caus my serialis error?
2. is the novel server 286a normal equip with two hard drive, on of
which ha fail?
3. would thi mean i can not instal the network softwar becaus it will not
be serialis for thi hardwar with a fail drive?
4. what els can caus a serialis error?
5. what happen if the keycard fail?
6. am i do someth wrong? can someon knowledg offer some comment
and guid.

thank for your time.

apolog:
=======
i appreci that i have post thi request somewhat wide. as i'm
deal with somewhat archaic hardwar and softwar i'm hope that by cast
my net further, i'm more like to captur someon who ha met thi system
befor. i believ i can justifi the group to which i am post. pleas
feel free to correct me if you feel thi is an inappropri place to post
thi.


-- 
	thi post is definit. bljeghb'chugh vaj blhegh.
  wayn mcdougal :: keeper of the list of show better than star trek(tm) ::
            ask me about the auckland festiv of mission, 18-25 april, 1993
i alwai chang my mind when new evid is avail. what method do you us?

