from: daniel@lclark.edu (daniel snodgrass)
subject: re: stand alon edit suit.
articl-i.d.: lclark.1993apr20.191542.9392
organ: lewi & clark colleg, portland or
line: 63

in articl <1qvkaeinngat@shellei.u.washington.edu> eylerken@stein.u.washington.edu (ken eyler) write:
>i need some help.  we ar upgrad our anim/video edit stand. we
>ar look into the differ type of setup for a/b roll and a cut onli
>station.  we would like thi to be control by a comput ( brand doesnt matter but mayb mac, or amiga).  low end to high end system setup would be veri
>help. if you have a system or us a system that might be of us, could you
>mail me your system requir, what it is us for, and all the hardwar and
>softwar that will be necessari to set the system up.  if you need more 
>info, you  can mail me at   eylerken@u.washington.edu
>
>thank in advanc.
>
>:ken
>:eylerken@u.washington.edu


here at lewi and clark colleg we have recent instal a digit film
system (base on the mac quadra) that doe non-linear, full digit edit.

if you're consid such a system, here ar the pro and con:

for the educ environ, thi system is excel.  we us it to
produc a varieti of educ materi for disemin on our local
network.  becaus thi program is go to be view on other mac, the
imag qualiti is not as import as the abil to directli export the
video to the net.

we also us it to produc orienti and promot video program for
us by the lewi & clark commun.  sinc these program ar not meant for
commerci or broadcast us, imag qualiti is not critic.

the digit film system, for those of you who ar uniniti, is an a/b roll
digit system on on $5000 jpeg compress card.  it wa promot as
an inexpens onlin edit system with svh qualiti.  supermac, the maker
of the card, is try to achiev thi qualiti level, but as yet, ha been
unabl to deliv.  our system produc "near vh" qualiti at 30 field per
second (640x480 overscan).  the card repeat everi other field to get 60
field per second.  thi result in a kind of super 8 film look that some
find distract.

if you can get past thi problem, you'll find the adob premier edit 
softwar quit enjoy with which to work.  it produc thousand of
differ effect from crystal filter to dve transit to color mat.

becaus of it non-linear natur, edit is fast and easi.  if you've ever
us (or seen us) an avid or montag system, you'll recogn the methodolog
and the user interfac.

the total system with quadra 950 (40meg of ram), 1 gig drive, 21" appl mon-
itor, panason svh 1960 edit deck, audio gear (cassett, cd, eq, mixer, etc),
composit monitor, digit film card will set you back about $20,000.

for you video cowboi and girl, thi system will not output at a qualiti
that will satisfi most of your client.  even though you can perform more
effect than a toasterhead can imagin, an amiga base off-line base system
will look better.

we us both mac and amiga for our video work.  each for what each doe best!


dan snodgrass
media servic
lewi & clark colleg
portland
